The last topic we're going to cover is Spring Boot profiles.
Profiles are fundamental to the Spring framework.
Let's say we have an application that we need to deploy to
different environments such as development,
test, and production.
The application configuration in each of these environments will be different.
For example, when running in dev,
you want the app to connect to the development database.
Or if you're deploying your application to production,
you'll want to connect to the production database.
Spring Boot supports all of the Spring profile configurations with a few
additional features like the spring.profiles.active configuration.
This is used to define the currently active profile.
This is a standard property that Spring Boot will pick up automatically.
But the most important profile‑related feature that Spring Boot
brings is profile‑specific property files.
These have to be named in a specific format,
applications‑profile.properties. For example, for development,
you would use applications‑ dev.properties. For test,
you would use applications‑test.properties, and for production,
applications‑prod.properties. Spring Boot will automatically load the
properties in an applications.properties file for all profiles and then the ones in profile‑specific properties files.